# Overview
In the summer of 2017 I received a grant through the Colorado College History Department to study the resources available at the Canon City Prison Museum archive. After completing a data science bootcamp during the spring of 2021 I decided to revisit that data and create some visualizations. Although still a work in progress, the visualizations are available to be viewed at this link: http://54.177.157.57/

My hope is that I will be able to continue revisiting these visualizations and improve upon them, as well as the EC2 instance which currently hosts the site. I used Pandas and Python to deal with the data I collected, and Tableau to create the visualizations. Below you can read specifics about each of the sections available. 

# Prisoner Birthplace
The tabs under this category visualize the locations prisoners were born, both over time and cumulatively. The scales are all the same 

# Domestic States/Regions 
Birthplaces of prisoners born in the United States. The span of the years varies, but each tab represents the data from 4 Biennial Reports. Biennial Reports were published every 2 years. There are certainly prisoners who are counted in multiple Biennial reports, and as such prisoners with longer sentences are likely overrepresented. The final slide shows the distribution of prisoner birthplaces over all available years. It has a different scale than the previous slides smaller groups of years. 

# Foreign Countries/Regions 
Birthplaces of prisoners born outside the United States. The span of the years varies, but each tab represents the data from 4 Biennial Reports. Biennial Reports were published every 2 years. There are certainly prisoners who are counted in multiple Biennial reports, and as such prisoners with longer sentences are likely overrepresented. The final slide shows the distribution of prisoner birthplaces over all available years. It has a different scale than the previous slides smaller groups of years. 

# Comparison to Census Data
Here we are comparing the demographics of the prison to the demographics of Colorado garnered from census data. To make comparisons to years in which there was no census conducted a simple linear regression was used to infer likely demographic distributions. The first slide compares the percent of prisoners listed as "Black" to the percent of those censused counted as "Black". The rest of the slides use the birthplaces of prisoners/censused individuals. The slide on Mexicans uses birthplace data rather than race data, as the census counted those with latino heritage as being "White" for all the years I looked at with the exception of 1930. I hope to improve upon these visualizations by filtering the census data to more closely conform to the ages and genders of the prisoners. Some Biennial reports include women in race and birthplace statistics, while some do not. It is also certainly true that the age distribution of prisoners is not the same as the age distribution of those censused. Another thing which ought to be noted is that census data does not perfectly represent the individuals living in any one region. For example, many miners living in Colorado in the 19th century were of foreign heritage, and did not lay down permanent roots in the state. It may be beneficial to look for other data which accounts for possible underrepresentation 

# Crime By Category
These slides attempt to categorize the crimes prisoners were incarcerated for. The first slide shows each crime category, the number of prisoners incarcerated for those crimes, and the demographics of those prisoners. The following slides give a more detailed look at each crime category, showing the demographics of the prisoners incarcerated for those crimes, the average sentencing length for each demographic, and the crimes which compose the category. I'd like to say that one category listed is 'Moral'. By categorizing certain crimes as being crimes of morality I am not taking a stance on the morality of those crimes. Some of the crimes grouped into this category are not offences today, such as performing or receiving an abortion, or sodomy. Others, such as incest, are still crimes today. In grouping such crimes together I aim to draw no equivalancy, I am simply acknowledging the fact that they were all considered as offences which went against the ethos of their day. 

# Sentencing Length
Here we are analyzing the different sentencing lenghts of prisoners incarcerated in Colorado. The first slide shows the average prison term by demographic group. The 2nd slide shows the average prison term over time. The third slide looks at the average prison length of foreign prisoners. The 4th slide shows the portion of prisoners with life/death sentences compared to those with standard prison sentences. The final 2 slides look at life and death sentences by prisoner background. It should be mentioned here that prisoners with longer sentences are overrepresented. Going forward some efforts should be made to distinguish between prisoners counted by a previous Biennial Report and those who are appearing for the first time in the prisoner logs. 



